ROADMAP.md, before:

# 🔥 Community Firewood Bank Management App - Complete Roadmap

**Repo**: https://github.com/fourfigs/firewoodbank2  
**Status**: 🟢 Stage 5 - Work Orders + Deliveries (current)  
**Target**: Windows Desktop → Multi-platform sync-ready app

## 🎯 PROJECT GOALS
- Windows desktop-first Tauri 2 app for Firewood Bank operations
- Client onboarding, inventory tracking, work orders, invoices, dashboard
- Sync-ready schema for future cloud + mobile expansion
- Print invoices, driver views, admin tools, change requests

## 🏗️ ARCHITECTURE
Frontend: React + TypeScript + Tailwind/Vite
Backend: Rust + SQLite (SQLx/SeaORM)
Shell: Tauri 2 (Windows → macOS/Linux/Android/iOS)
Sync: UUIDs + createdAt/updatedAt/isDeleted/lastSyncedAt/version


## 📋 DEVELOPMENT WORKFLOW (MANDATORY - Follow Exactly)

1️⃣ BEFORE EACH STAGE:
git checkout -b stage-X-[name]

Paste OVERALL SYSTEM PROMPT in Cursor (pinned)
2️⃣ IMPLEMENTATION:

Model proposes file changes

Copy-paste exact diffs

npm install && tauri dev

3️⃣ VERIFY:

Check "What you should see" matches
Review login screen “Revision checklist” for per-stage behaviors to smoke-test

Test all new UI flows

4️⃣ COMMIT:
git add . && git commit -m "feat(stage-X): [name]"
git push origin stage-X-[name]


## 🗄️ CORE ENTITIES (From your PDF forms + sync-ready)

### **Client** (Onboard.pdf)
id(UUID), clientNumber(55+), clientTitle, name, physicalAddress,
mailingAddress, telephone, email, dateOfOnboarding, howDidTheyHearAboutUs,
referringAgency, approvalStatus(approved/denied/pending), denialReason,
gateCombo, notes, createdAt, updatedAt, createdByUserId, isDeleted


### **WorkOrder** (Order.pdf)  
id(UUID), clientId, clientNumber, clientTitle, clientName, physicalAddress,
mailingAddress, telephone, email, directions, gateCombo,
otherHeatSourceGas/Electric/Other(+text), notes, scheduledDate, status,
createdAt, updatedAt, createdByUserId, isDeleted


### **Invoice** (Invoice.pdf)
id(UUID), workOrderId, invoiceNumber, invoiceDate, lineItems[], subtotal,
tax, total, client snapshot, notes, createdAt, updatedAt, isDeleted


### **Other Entities**
- **User**: name, role(admin/lead/staff/driver), availability, DL status, vehicle
- **InventoryItem**: chainsaws, bar oil, gas, 2-stroke oil, files, helmets, etc + thresholds
- **DeliveryEvent**: type(delivery/meeting/workday), dates, colorCode
- **MOTD**, **ChangeRequest** (all with sync metadata)

## 🚀 STAGES (10 total - Current progress tracked here)

### 🟡 **Stage 0: Schema Design** (Planning)
✅ Create this Roadmap.md + commit
✅ Design sync-ready schema from PDFs
✅ Output: Rust structs + TS DTOs
What you see: Schema definitions ready


### ✅ **Stage 1: Tauri + React Skeleton**
Scaffold Tauri 2 Windows app + React nav shell
Add ping command (test Rust↔React bridge)
What you see: Desktop window w/ Dashboard/Clients/Inventory nav
Branch: stage-1-skeleton


### ✅ **Stage 2: SQLite + Sync Tables**
SQLite migrations for ALL entities w/ sync fields
Rust CRUD for Client/InventoryItem
Tauri commands: createClient/listClients/etc
What you see: DB connection + test commands work
Branch: stage-2-db


### ✅ **Stage 3: Clients Module**
Client list + onboard form aligned to PDFs
Create + approval status + gate combo capture
Placeholder delivery metrics
What you see: Add/edit clients w/ full form
Branch: stage-3-clients


### ✅ **Stage 4: Inventory Module**
chainsaws/bar oil/gas/files/helmets etc + thresholds
Below-threshold warnings + auto order messages
CRUD + "needs restock" view
What you see: Inventory list w/ low-stock alerts
Branch: stage-4-inventory

### 🟢 **Stage 5: Work Orders + Deliveries**
Full Order.pdf form → WorkOrder entity
Auto-create DeliveryEvent on schedule
Client→WorkOrder linking
What you see: Create work orders from clients
Branch: stage-5-workorders

### ✅ **Stage 5.1: Tuning Forms & Access**
Role-based gating for client/workorder/inventory creation
HIPAA-aware PII masking (only admins + certified leads; drivers get address/phone for assigned work)
Volunteer/driver limited views; mileage required to close work orders
Mailer list view; + toggles and icon updates; login role/username flow
What you see: Forms gated by role, PII masked per policy, mileage field on work orders
Branch: stage-5.1-tuningForms
Sub-stages to close gaps:
- 5.1a: Driver delivery-only view (address/contact for assigned deliveries; strip non-delivery workorder PII)
- 5.1b: Persist assignments/mileage/availability/vehicle in backend schema + commands
- 5.1c: Server-side PII enforcement (role checks, driver-limited payloads, audit logging hooks; town and mileage initially derived from client address)
- 5.1d: Volunteer/driver hours + wood-credit calc wired to persisted events (0.75 minutes/mile; delivery assignments mirrored into delivery_events)

### ⏳ **Stage 5.2: Work Order Intake Hardening (new)**
Tighten intake UX/validation before Stage 6:
- Split client name into first/last; auto-generate client number from name + entry month + 2 random digits; lock edit to admin
- Enforce required: name, address, at least one contact (phone/email/other+specify); format phone `(###) ###-####`; city init-cap; state 2-letter uppercase and validated; ZIP `#####` or `#####-####`
- Add wood size dropdown (12/14/16/Other + specify inches integer) and delivery size (1 cord / 1/3 cord / other numeric), carry both on work orders — **implemented**
- Inventory impact: reserve wood on schedule/in-progress and deduct on completed; release on cancel — **implemented with reserved_quantity tracking**
- Driver assignment dropdown (licensed drivers from DB) unlocks scheduling; driver availability drives schedule choices; status/mileage editable only by lead/admin (driver can enter mileage and mark delivered pending approval)
-only poeople with the DL flag are populated to the driver list for deliveries — **implemented**
- Label work orders with creator display name (not username)
-orders are to be entered by staff and admin only. — **implemented (UI + backend gate)**
- Drivers can add up to four workers/helpers on a delivery — **implemented**

### ⏳ **Stage 5.3: Worker Directory (new)**
Admin/Lead-only Worker Directory tab:
- List Volunteers/ staff with name, phone, schedule/availability, driver license status, working vehicle, HIPAA certification flag
- Double-click row opens full profile detail
- Tab hidden for non-admin/non-lead
-full profile includes name, address, contact, availability, DL?, HIPAA Certified, working vehicle. It does not need to be in this order. ask lead in qwuestions for anything you think should be included.

### ⭕ **Stage 6: Login + Dashboard + Calendar**
Split/unsplit wood summary
2-weeks-at-glance + monthly calendar (color-coded)
Upcoming list + MOTD
Admin: availability + low inventory cards
Dashboard MOTD panel uses the scrollable notes area (like login checklist); newest messages push older down
What you see: Operational dashboard w/ calendar
Branch: stage-6-dashboard

### ⭕ **Stage 7: Users + Change Requests + MOTD**
User profiles + "Request change" modal
Admin change request queue (approve/reject)
MOTD management
What you see: User change workflow + MOTD on dashboard
Branch: stage-7-users-admin


### ⭕ **Stage 8: Invoices + Printing**
Invoice.pdf → Invoice entity
Generate from completed WorkOrder
Tauri print dialog integration
What you see: Print invoices from app
Branch: stage-8-invoices


### ⭕ **Stage 9: Driver Mode (Desktop)**
Today's deliveries list for drivers
Status updates (en route/delivered/issue)
Touch-friendly (mobile-ready)
What you see: Driver view w/ today's route
Branch: stage-9-driver


### ⭕ **Stage 10: HIPAA Compliance Check**
PII masking rules, audit/logging, role verification, release checklist
What you see: Compliance checklist + PII masking confirmed
Branch: stage-10-hipaa

### ⭕ **Stage 11: Desktop Rollout**
Windows packaging hardening; installer/signing checks; smoke tests
What you see: Desktop build ready for field use
Branch: stage-11-desktop

### ⭕ **Stage 12: Sync Hooks**
SyncService abstraction (getPendingChanges/etc)
lastSyncedAt/version fields
Future cloud-ready comments
What you see: No UI change (internal prep)
Branch: stage-12-sync

Commit message:

feat(stage-5.1): audit-log-and-motd

ROADMAP.md, after:

# 🔥 Community Firewood Bank Management App - Complete Roadmap

**Repo**: https://github.com/fourfigs/firewoodbank2  
**Status**: 🟢 Stage 5 - Work Orders + Deliveries (current)  
**Target**: Windows Desktop → Multi-platform sync-ready app

## 🎯 PROJECT GOALS
- Windows desktop-first Tauri 2 app for Firewood Bank operations
- Client onboarding, inventory tracking, work orders, invoices, dashboard
- Sync-ready schema for future cloud + mobile expansion
- Print invoices, driver views, admin tools, change requests

## 🏗️ ARCHITECTURE
Frontend: React + TypeScript + Tailwind/Vite
Backend: Rust + SQLite (SQLx/SeaORM)
Shell: Tauri 2 (Windows → macOS/Linux/Android/iOS)
Sync: UUIDs + createdAt/updatedAt/isDeleted/lastSyncedAt/version


## 📋 DEVELOPMENT WORKFLOW (MANDATORY - Follow Exactly)

1️⃣ BEFORE EACH STAGE:
git checkout -b stage-X-[name]

Paste OVERALL SYSTEM PROMPT in Cursor (pinned)
2️⃣ IMPLEMENTATION:

Model proposes file changes

Copy-paste exact diffs

npm install && tauri dev

3️⃣ VERIFY:

Check "What you should see" matches
Review login screen “Revision checklist” for per-stage behaviors to smoke-test

Test all new UI flows

4️⃣ COMMIT:
git add . && git commit -m "feat(stage-X): [name]"
git push origin stage-X-[name]


## 🗄️ CORE ENTITIES (From your PDF forms + sync-ready)

### **Client** (Onboard.pdf)
id(UUID), clientNumber(55+), clientTitle, name, physicalAddress,
mailingAddress, telephone, email, dateOfOnboarding, howDidTheyHearAboutUs,
referringAgency, approvalStatus(approved/denied/pending), denialReason,
gateCombo, notes, createdAt, updatedAt, createdByUserId, isDeleted


### **WorkOrder** (Order.pdf)  
id(UUID), clientId, clientNumber, clientTitle, clientName, physicalAddress,
mailingAddress, telephone, email, directions, gateCombo,
otherHeatSourceGas/Electric/Other(+text), notes, scheduledDate, status,
createdAt, updatedAt, createdByUserId, isDeleted


### **Invoice** (Invoice.pdf)
id(UUID), workOrderId, invoiceNumber, invoiceDate, lineItems[], subtotal,
tax, total, client snapshot, notes, createdAt, updatedAt, isDeleted


### **Other Entities**
- **User**: name, role(admin/lead/staff/driver), availability, DL status, vehicle
- **InventoryItem**: chainsaws, bar oil, gas, 2-stroke oil, files, helmets, etc + thresholds
- **DeliveryEvent**: type(delivery/meeting/workday), dates, colorCode
- **MOTD**, **ChangeRequest** (all with sync metadata)

## 🚀 STAGES (10 total - Current progress tracked here)

### 🟡 **Stage 0: Schema Design** (Planning)
✅ Create this Roadmap.md + commit
✅ Design sync-ready schema from PDFs
✅ Output: Rust structs + TS DTOs
What you see: Schema definitions ready


### ✅ **Stage 1: Tauri + React Skeleton**
Scaffold Tauri 2 Windows app + React nav shell
Add ping command (test Rust↔React bridge)
What you see: Desktop window w/ Dashboard/Clients/Inventory nav
Branch: stage-1-skeleton


### ✅ **Stage 2: SQLite + Sync Tables**
SQLite migrations for ALL entities w/ sync fields
Rust CRUD for Client/InventoryItem
Tauri commands: createClient/listClients/etc
What you see: DB connection + test commands work
Branch: stage-2-db


### ✅ **Stage 3: Clients Module**
Client list + onboard form aligned to PDFs
Create + approval status + gate combo capture
Placeholder delivery metrics
What you see: Add/edit clients w/ full form
Branch: stage-3-clients


### ✅ **Stage 4: Inventory Module**
chainsaws/bar oil/gas/files/helmets etc + thresholds
Below-threshold warnings + auto order messages
CRUD + "needs restock" view
What you see: Inventory list w/ low-stock alerts
Branch: stage-4-inventory

### 🟢 **Stage 5: Work Orders + Deliveries**
Full Order.pdf form → WorkOrder entity
Auto-create DeliveryEvent on schedule
Client→WorkOrder linking
What you see: Create work orders from clients
Branch: stage-5-workorders

### ✅ **Stage 5.1: Tuning Forms & Access**
Role-based gating for client/workorder/inventory creation
HIPAA-aware PII masking (only admins + certified leads; drivers get address/phone for assigned work)
Volunteer/driver limited views; mileage required to close work orders
Mailer list view; + toggles and icon updates; login role/username flow
What you see: Forms gated by role, PII masked per policy, mileage field on work orders
Branch: stage-5.1-tuningForms
Sub-stages to close gaps:
- 5.1a: Driver delivery-only view (address/contact for assigned deliveries; strip non-delivery workorder PII)
- 5.1b: Persist assignments/mileage/availability/vehicle in backend schema + commands
- 5.1c: Server-side PII enforcement (role checks, driver-limited payloads, audit logging hooks; town and mileage initially derived from client address)
- 5.1d: Volunteer/driver hours + wood-credit calc wired to persisted events (0.75 minutes/mile; delivery assignments mirrored into delivery_events)
- Closing a work order to “completed” requires mileage and records the lead/admin who closed it
- Slice: Audit log persisted (audit_logs table) and MOTD surfaced on login newest→oldest

### ⏳ **Stage 5.2: Work Order and Intake Hardening (new)**
Tighten intake UX/validation before Stage 6:
- Split client name into first/last; auto-generate client number from name + entry month + 2 random digits; lock edit to admin
- Enforce required: name, address, at least one contact (phone/email/other+specify); format phone `(###) ###-####`; city init-cap; state 2-letter uppercase and validated; ZIP `#####` or `#####-####`
- Add wood size dropdown (12/14/16/Other + specify inches integer) and delivery size (1 cord / 1/3 cord / other numeric), carry both on work orders — **implemented**
- Inventory impact: reserve wood on schedule/in-progress and deduct on completed; release on cancel — **implemented with reserved_quantity tracking**
- Driver assignment dropdown (licensed drivers from DB) unlocks scheduling; driver availability drives schedule choices; status/mileage editable only by lead/admin (driver can enter mileage and mark delivered pending approval)
-only poeople with the DL flag are populated to the driver list for deliveries — **implemented**
- Label work orders with creator display name (not username)
-orders are to be entered by staff and admin only. — **implemented (UI + backend gate)**
- Drivers can add up to four workers/helpers on a delivery — **implemented**
-all clients can be workers, all workers can be driver/hipaa/working vehicle flagged, only leads get PII unfiltered, and drivers only see the name, address, and contact info

### ⏳ **Stage 5.3: Worker Directory (new)**
Admin/Lead-only Worker Directory tab:
- List Volunteers/ staff with name, phone, schedule/availability, driver license status, working vehicle, HIPAA certification flag
- Double-click row opens full profile detail
- Tab hidden for non-admin/non-lead
-full profile includes name, address, contact, availability, DL?, HIPAA Certified, working vehicle. It does not need to be in this order. ask lead in qwuestions for anything you think should be included.

### ⭕ **Stage 6: Login + Dashboard + Calendar**
Split/unsplit wood summary
2-weeks-at-glance + monthly calendar (color-coded)
Upcoming list + MOTD
Admin: availability + low inventory cards
Dashboard MOTD panel uses the scrollable notes area (like login checklist); newest messages push older down
What you see: Operational dashboard w/ calendar
Branch: stage-6-dashboard

### ⭕ **Stage 7: Users + Change Requests + MOTD**
User profiles + "Request change" modal
Admin change request queue (approve/reject)
MOTD management
What you see: User change workflow + MOTD on dashboard
Branch: stage-7-users-admin


### ⭕ **Stage 8: Invoices + Printing**
Invoice.pdf → Invoice entity
Generate from completed WorkOrder
Tauri print dialog integration
What you see: Print invoices from app
Branch: stage-8-invoices


### ⭕ **Stage 9: Driver Mode (Desktop)**
Today's deliveries list for drivers
Status updates (en route/delivered/issue)
Touch-friendly (mobile-ready)
What you see: Driver view w/ today's route
Branch: stage-9-driver


### ⭕ **Stage 10: HIPAA Compliance Check**
PII masking rules, audit/logging, role verification, release checklist
What you see: Compliance checklist + PII masking confirmed
Branch: stage-10-hipaa

### ⭕ **Stage 11: Desktop Rollout**
Windows packaging hardening; installer/signing checks; smoke tests
What you see: Desktop build ready for field use
Branch: stage-11-desktop

### ⭕ **Stage 12: Sync Hooks**
SyncService abstraction (getPendingChanges/etc)
lastSyncedAt/version fields
Future cloud-ready comments
What you see: No UI change (internal prep)
Branch: stage-12-sync
